veganism has to change and insured
here's why can you remember the first
time somebody told you that cigarettes
were bad for your health
or the first time someone told you
there's hard scientific evidence that
cigarettes cause cancer depending on how
old you are it's quite possible you
can't it's quite possible you heard that
when you were a very young child that it
was part of your part of your grade for
education that it's such an early memory
you can't remember the first time you
learned that you can't remember a time
of your life when you thought cigarettes
we're good for your health but for many
people depending on which generation
they're from depend on when they went
through this process many people grew up
surrounded by propaganda and advertising
that either just implicitly represented
cigarette smoking as something luxurious
enjoyable healthy normal and fun or they
actually even grew up with propaganda
actively claiming that cigarettes were
healthy I can remember that
advertisements that made me laugh out
loud from Lucky Strike claiming that
because they were toasted because it's
toasted they were they were good for
your health obviously this is decades
and decades ago this is the step of
advertise would be illegal today the
first time the first time people learn
that cigarettes cause cancer the
cigarettes are bad for the health it may
make a huge impact it may or may not
motivate them to quit smoking personally
it may lead them to regard their own
life in a in a different way I knew one
fellow he must be over 50 years old now
I don't know I remember him saying
passionately and he grew up in Ireland I
not the stereotype the Irish but um I
remember him him saying to me with real
emotion that um when he really found out
what cigarettes had done to him that he
felt cheated that he felt robbed and
that in large party he felt robbed of
you know life itself because when he
found out he was hospitalised he was in
a hospital bed and he was coughing up
you know unbelievable black I think
black tar from his long
I forget the medical details now he did
he did get out of that hospital bed he
had three or four different health
conditions and two or three of them he
managed to recover from and you know he
is he did quit smoking and his his life
went on but the impact of learning for
the first time the cigarettes are
terrible for you it didn't have that
impact the second time the third time
the fifth time the tenth time it can't
possibly it becomes normal it ceases to
be new it ceases to be shocking it loses
its ability to to shock it lose its
ability to change human behavior it goes
from being a sudden clash of drums that
gets your attention to being part of the
regular drumbeat of our daily lives I
could say something similar about purely
ethical concerns can you remember the
first time you found out that the United
States was using torture to extract
information from enemy combatants or
people they seemed to pick out almost at
random from their their wars around the
world can you remember your first time
learning with that for some of us again
it might be great for it might be
childhood for some of us it might have
been in our teenage years in college or
even after we joined the workforce when
you really found out the details of
routinized state sanctioned torture can
you remember when it was a sudden crash
and then can you remember the second
time the fifth time the tenth time how
this just became part of the familiar
drumbeat of daily life veganism has to
change because the information that
we've relied on getting people's
attention and getting people's
motivation at this point is very much
like that short-term shock and when I
look at groups like direct action
everywhere I think what they're really
trying to do is arrest the movement in
that moment of horror that moment of
realization they want people to not let
go of
that necessarily fleeting feeling that
you've been lied to that you've been
cheated your whole life you were told
this was something wholesome and not
only is it bad for your health
it comes from an unbelievably unethical
factory farming process right and for
many people you know maybe you watching
this video but maybe you also remember
the first time you explained this to
your own parents or to your boyfriends
or girlfriends to somebody in your life
you've probably been around somebody and
you observe them the first time they
really figured out where milk comes from
the first time they really figured out
where where meat comes from but guess
what just like learning that cigarette
smoking is bad for you the fifth time
the 10th time the 100th time you've
heard it it loses its ability to shock
it loses its stunning effect of being of
a cymbal crash whatever you want to say
and it becomes part of the drumbeat of
daily life veganism
in some ways has really had kind of a
free ride especially I'd say in the last
five years because of this medium right
here because of YouTube because of video
sharing on the internet it's true I mean
I can remember back when I was in high
school people would there were still
photographs of factory farm conditions
and that did there was you know there
was some momentum given to veganism I
don't know 1997
I can't remember what what things were
like back then mmm but it's true there's
nothing else quite like I mean the
stereotypical experience is the first
time somebody watched earthling so the
first time they watched from farm to
fridge any of these documentaries that
collects together documentary film
footage from inside factory farms from
inside slaughterhouses or maybe they
just saw some the Internet that with no
gore with nothing no explicit imagery in
a diagrammatic way explain to you where
milk comes from or why free-range
chicken eggs you really aren't so free
at all you know but all of that
now coming to an end lightning doesn't
strike twice the sense of shock and
horror and short-term motivation that
people took from this first encounter
with the truth that was concealed by
shiny packaging and you know to some
extent yes industry propaganda to some
extent just the human capacity to hope
that things will turn out for the best
just wishful thinking just straight-up
wishful thinking that you'd like to
imagine milk is produced from some happy
cartoon farm or the cows are frolicking
in the fields you know I think that's
also part of what you're up against here
is just human optimism right veganism
has to change you may disagree with me
about the way forward but I hope just
from this short video you can recognize
the way forward is not the way back we
can't possibly do what direct action
everywhere is trying to do and try to
hold ourselves by the throat and grab
others by the throat with these emotive
Appeals with breaking down weeping in a
restaurant and screaming it's not food
it's violence with pretending that that
moment of initial shock and horror is
gonna shake people out of their
indifference as perhaps you feel it
shaped us out of ours okay
that's a fleeting moment both in each
person's life on their progress towards
veganism and when you scale it up for
society as a whole
there is simply put a point of
diminishing returns to the shock caused
by factory farm footage and for that
same reason there is a point of
diminishing returns to the whole
political methodology of disruption and
of confrontation one of the most praised
methods of activism right now is the so
called cube of truth
I don't why they don't call it the
square of truth because it's
two-dimensional but
of confronting strangers on the street
with videotape footage of what's going
on in factory farms maybe you can
remember how you felt the first time you
saw that kind of footage but the second
time the fifth time the tenth time think
about it if we want long-term to be a
society that smokes zero cigarettes we
can't go around with this kind of
emotive language trying to drag people
back to that feeling of shock and horror
when they first realized cigarettes
cause lung cancer showing them
horrifying images of the esophagus and
lungs of people who've been impaired by
this disease who are dying a slow
painful death it becomes part of the
regular drumbeat of life it becomes
something everybody knows and that not
everybody but the majority accepts if we
aspire to become a society in which
nobody smokes cigarettes to become a
society in which nobody eats meat that's
the road ahead but it's not gonna be
based on short-term shock aw and anguish